# lockbox.sh

## summary

lockbox.sh locks up sensitive files and ships them off for safe keeping. 
Written as part of the "Project of the Week" club. 

## description

Lockbox.sh does the following:

1) Reads in values from the .gitignore file in a directory
2) Finds the `##!` tag in the file, reads all the following paths as "safe" files.
3) Copies all those files into a "lockbox" directory at the repo-root.
    3.5) only does this if those files have changed
4) Encrypts that directory.
5) Copies that directory to somewhere else in the system, with a timestamp. Optionally uploads
    to a server

## motivation

This script is part of a larger body of scripts which I will use to automate the setup of a 
fresh Arch Linux install. I regularly need to install a new system (on VMs, or -- more likely --
because I've borked up my old system. :) ), and the goal is to minimize the entire install
to 1-5 commands (barring the actual install of arch proper). This script is a vital component,
the files in the lockbox will be encrypted, stored offsite, and -- when the time comes -- downloaded
to the system (or, perhaps, loaded on via flash drive, or some other method of delivery) and unpacked.
The lockbox will contain password-bearing files, sensitive configuration files, bootstrap ssh-keys[1],
etc.

## Project of the week

-- 05/10/11

8:30am - started the project, deadline is 
8:50am - reading and learning awk
8:55am - getting close to work-time, haven't got too far, but most of the
        docs are going well. I'm thinking awk is going to be relatively 
        useful for parsing that file -- I'm trying to avoid using heavier
        weight stuff like perl or ruby, but I might have to if I can't
        figure this out. I wish Bash had more obvious docs on where the
        control structures (stacks/lists/etc) are.
        --
        maybe I could just grab the line number, and then do a little 
        tail magic...
9:00am - Work time, this'll have to do for now. See you in a while, internets!

-- 05/12/11

8:05am - started up again, yesterday I didn't get a chance to work on this at
        all, but my hope today is to get the lines after the `##!` into the script.
        The next step after that will be wrapping up a couple functions which 
        can be executed by command-line options, eg:
            
            lockbox.sh --lock
                (re)create the lockbox

            lockbox.sh --unlock
                unpack a lockbox if one exists, fail otherwise

            lockbox.sh --status
                check the status of each file in the manifest, if any needs
                to be repacked, print it to STDOUT, if no files need to be
                repacked, print "OK" or something

        Maybe I should go for a git-style metacommand thing

            lockbox lock, lockbox unlock, lockbox status 

        looks kindof nice...

        over the last day, I read a bit about BASH and think that I can dodge awk,
        being on the train with no internet makes some things hard, but I downloaded
        a few good guides (The Beginners Guide to BASH, and the Advanced BASH guide)[2]
        from: tldp.org/guides.html, go there, get stuff. _tons_ of great books.

8:25 - decided I liked "##~" better as the delimiter, having some trouble with the
    test constructs in bash, back to the guide.
8:45 - I don't know why this list isn't getting populated the way I think it should,
    but at this point, I'm think I'll just whack it with `tail`.
8:51 - got it, `tail` is my favorite command... :) but seriously, if someone knows what
    I was doing wrong there, I'd like to know.
8:55 - interesting, can't return an array from a bash function? seems wrong. I'll have
    to figure it out tonight. To work!


-- 05/13/11

8:01 - back to work! I'm listening to the ruby-rogues podcast while I do this, hopefully
    I won't get too distracted. (gonna read some docs for a second)

8:11 - AHA! BASH FUNCTIONS CAN'T RETURN ARRAYS!
    This is a big ass gotcha. from ABS (paraphrased) : "Return can take an optional
    _integer_ parameter, representing the exit status of the function" 

    You can get around this like I just did, by adding an "output" parameter. Since
    bash arguments are always passed by reference (eg, as pointers), so I declare an
    empty array, pass it to the function, and then assign to that parameter inside
    the function.

8:23 - I just committed a cardinal sin. "TODO: write better docs here" -- bets on whether
    I'll remember?

8:30 - Trying to get the lockbox "somecommand" thing, I think I'm just going to look
    at the git scripts. I know they do it, let's see if I can find them.

8:32 - nice. found it, I think.

8:34 - this was less useful than I hoped. however, I think I just needed to drop
    the space. BASH is picky like that.

8:38 - totally figured out the interface to this thing.

8:42 - hopefully that `exit function_name` pattern will work. 

    One interesting thing here, this `lockbox` function is a function-full-of-functions.
    The lockbox_manager is essentially an initialize and dispatch function-in-one. Making
    the lockbox function act like a one-shot object. It's a pretty handy pattern for 
    organizing short scripts like this, you can, if you're clever, preserve the reference
    and stuff, but that can get really complicated.

8:46 - I think I'm going to call it quits now, I've got 15 minutes till I get to work,
    Things left on the list are just to implement each one of those three functions,
    maybe create a couple composite commands, but basically, I'm in the home
    stretch.

-- 05/15/11

21:30 - little late-night work, going to implement the "copy to .lockbox" and hopefully
    the status function. the lock/unlock function ought to be pretty easy -- just wrap
    openssl. Let's play with openssl for a bit.

22:06 - figured out how to do the lock and unlock commands. Since the status bit will be
    somewhat difficult, I think (I have to check for presence in a list, which is not 
    something I know how to do in BASH. 

    I'm also going to change the name of the command to "safe" since it's shorter, and
    doesn't sound so stuttered when you use it, "safe lock, safe unlock" etc, as opposed
    to "lockbox lock" etc.

22:10 - taking a break quickly.

-- 05/16/11

07:55am - back... little breaks become long when sleeping is involved... :)
    
    Let's set up the `lock` and `unlock` commands.

    Sorry, had to buy my train ticket. Let's do this.

08:08 - first draft of those lock/unlock functions done, time to test them.

    o.o

    ah, never calling it.

    okay, apparently exit is exiting the shell, easy fix...

    whoa.

    seriously, fuck return.

    I think the issue is that I'm trying to -- essentially -- return the
    status of the command I'm executing, I probably need to do
    
        return $! or $? or whatever it is.. -- $?

    but I don't care that much.

08:14 - needed a new timestamp. :)

08:19 - hmm, where is it getting eaten? 

    must be in that parse_gitignore thing.

    thats not good.

    aha, too much haskell, make me no want use commas.

08:22 - I love HERE docs.

    oooh, that actually did work, just looking at the wrong directory

    also, i've been bad, I haven't been committing regularly, don't do
    this! I'm usually better about it, but this is all so small, I don't
    mind so much the lack of commits. *snicker, one commit in the log...*

    oof. 'end' != 'enc'

    that was me failing hard to type "test"... I'll probably want to redirect
    those errors and throw my own, but that's a later iteration.

    hmm, that's probably from the tar command. lets see if there is a force
    option to get it to overwrite the directory...

    alternately, I could have it remove the .safe directory, but I'm always nervous 
    about shit like that. Let's have it move it for now, and we'll find the
    force option later.

    I wonder if I even need the ``'s for that command.

08:31 - hmm, thats odd indeed, guess I do need a force command
    
    also, I probably shouldn't rely on ".safe" being there, let's fix that

    I forget how to do single-column visual mode in vim, someone watching this
    should remind me, so I can forget again.

    that was largely useless, but I have an idea.

    weird... well, fuck it, it works, I don't care if .safe is a directory.

    cool, now lets just have it nix the old lockbox

    first lets see if i need the backticks. nope.

8:45 - 
    guess I haven't set this up on github yet. `git pm` is my alias for 
    `git push master` 

    so, what's left? Well. I need to get the status stuff working, and the
    commit to lockbox stuff working. I also will need to factor out the 
    encryption choice, and general naming of stuff. I figure a simple
    .saferc script in the git directory of record will work. Then I'll just
    have a `safe init` command which will create the safe. That might
    be in the next iteration though, I mostly just want to get this done for
    tomorrow!

    Alright, until next time...

18:23 - 
    BACK PENDEJOS.

    Going to work on the copy/update bit, the last part left.

    I hate trackpads.

    Awesome. That should do it, lets try it out.

    hmm, I hate folds sometimes. 

    oops, need some conditional directory creation.

    I _love_ this pattern, it goes like this 

        function foo () {
            // ...
            if (resource.exists?) {
                do_thing();
            } else {
                create_resource();
                do_thing();
            }
            // ...
        }

    That sucks, totally duplicates the do_thing call, perhaps requiring 
    much nastiness. Instead, you can write:

        function foo () {
            // ... 
            if (!resource.exists) {
                create_resource();
            }
            do_thing();
        }

    sometimes thats not feasible (maybe you need to reorder some arguments,
    or re-pass them, then you can do the recursion trick I did, however,
    it's confusing here, so let's fix that since we don't need too. 

    This (the recursion pattern) is really nice when you need to reorder arguments
    too. In situation where one argument must always be less than the other, but
    you don't want to enforce any ordering (eg, foo(x,y) where x<y or x>y, but
    you don't know which), you can do:

        foo (x, y) {
            if ( x > y ) { return foo(y,x) } 
        }

    As a simple guard so you can assume `x<y` in all cases.


    WHOA

    I think I screwed something up. like leaving in the recursive call, that was
    silly

    hmm, things didn't copy.

    Aha, it's not commas, it's quotes. 

    Hmm, I think I have to promote the update_safe_contents call from the
    execute_lock call, I really wish there were a cleaner way to do this, 
    I know I could just reference the outer variable, but I kind of want 
    to keep this functional, since this really _isn't_ an object I'm dealing
    with.

    We _can_ self encapsulate though, and call safe_manager to do the work for us. 
    but that will re-parse the .gitignore, maybe the right answer is to
    defer that, since the only guy who needs it is the update contents guy.

    I like that, now I can call update_safe_contents from inside execute_lock, which
    is what I'd really prefer to do

18:49 - Now, a test -- and a timestamp

    KICKASS!

    That was a smidge morbid... 

    lets test with content
    
    okay, only the encrypted file remains.

    WHOHOO!

    okay, almost home, gonna hang up for now, then come back and see if I can get 
    the move-back bit working.



## footnotes

[1] a key which can get me far enough into the system to pass some other checks to get a new ssh-key
installed remotely.

[2] I think those are the right names
